.\" Manpage for get-cryptobytes.
.\" Contact jonathan@wilbur.space to correct errors or typos.
.\"
.\" This man page is released under the following MIT license:
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Jonathan M. Wilbur <jonathan@wilbur.space>
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH man 1 "03 Mar 2018" "1.0" "get-cryptobytes man page"
.SH NAME
.BR get-cryptobytes ", Cryptographically-Secure Pseudo-Random Byte Generator"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B get-cryptobytes [number of bytes]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Writes a specified number of cryptographically-secure random bytes to
.IR stdout .
If run without any arguments, it returns information about the CSPRNG API
that will be used.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Invalid number of arguments.
.TP
.B 2
Exception encountered when trying to load system APIs for getting random bytes.
.TP
.B 3
Exception encountered when trying to load the selected function from the system API
or when trying to read from /dev/random.
.TP
.B 4
Number of bytes to generate is too large.
.TP
.B 5
Second argument is not a number.
.SH BUGS
There are no known bugs with this program, however, if you find any, please
report them to
.UR https://\:github.com/\:JonathanWilbur/\:csprng-d/\:issues
the GitHub issues page.
.UE
.SH AUTHORS
.MT jonathan@\:wilbur.space
Jonathan M. Wilbur
.ME